K8SPG-771 Documented PVC snapshot support (#362)
percona/k8spg-docs: docs/backups-pvc-snapshots.md

By reading this document you will learn the following:

* [What is a PVC snapshot](#overview)
* [How it works](#workflow)
* [Why you need it](#why-to-use-pvc-snapshots)
* [Requirements](#requirements) 
* [Current limitations](#limitations)

## Overview

A PVC snapshot is a point-in-time copy of a [Persistent Volume Claim :octicons-link-external-16:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) created by the storage provider. It captures the volume contents at a specific moment without copying data block by block. 

PVC snapshots are much faster than streaming data to cloud storage or a backup volume. This is especially beneficial for large datasets. The Operator uses the [Kubernetes VolumeSnapshot API :octicons-link-external-16:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volume-snapshots/) to create PVC snapshots at the storage level. When used with `pgBackRest` WAL archiving, PVC snapshots ensure data consistency and provide support for point-in-time recovery.

## Workflow

The Operator currently supports only cold backups (the `offline` mode). 
A cold backup is also known as an offline backup. 

> It is a storage-level backup taken when the PostgreSQL instance is shut down. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is a storage-level backup taken from a PostgreSQL replica instance after it is temporarily suspended by the operator.
```

> This ensures consistency by capturing the entire database exactly as it exists at the moment when it's shut down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This ensures consistency by capturing the entire database exactly as it exists at the moment when the target replica instance is suspended.
```

During cold backups, the Operator:

1. Selects a **replica** instance as the snapshot target.
2. Issues a PostgreSQL `CHECKPOINT` on that replica (if checkpoint is enabled).
3. **Suspends** the replica StatefulSet (scales it to zero).
4. Creates Kubernetes `VolumeSnapshot` objects for the data PVC, WAL PVC (if separate), and any tablespace PVCs.
5. Waits for all snapshots to become `ReadyToUse`.
6. **Resumes** the replica StatefulSet.

This approach ensures a crash-consistent snapshot while minimizing the impact on the primary. Only a replica is taken offline, so the cluster continues serving read/write traffic on the primary during the snapshot.

## Why to use PVC snapshots

PVC snapshots speed up backups and restores, which is especially beneficial for large data sets. With this feature, you get:

> * **Much faster backups** – Snapshot creation is typically seconds to minutes, regardless of database size. Traditional full backups scale with data volume and can take hours for large datasets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Much faster backups** – Snapshot creation is typically seconds to minutes, regardless of database size. Time taken to run traditional full physical backups increases as the size of your dataset grows.
```

By reading this document you will learn the following:

* [What is a PVC snapshot](#overview)
* [How it works](#workflow)
* [Why you need it](#why-to-use-pvc-snapshots)
* [Requirements](#requirements) 
* [Current limitations](#limitations)

## Overview

A PVC snapshot is a point-in-time copy of a [Persistent Volume Claim :octicons-link-external-16:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) created by the storage provider. It captures the volume contents at a specific moment without copying data block by block. 

PVC snapshots are much faster than streaming data to cloud storage or a backup volume. This is especially beneficial for large datasets. The Operator uses the [Kubernetes VolumeSnapshot API :octicons-link-external-16:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volume-snapshots/) to create PVC snapshots at the storage level. When used with pgBackRest WAL archiving, PVC snapshots ensure data consistency and provide support for point-in-time recovery.

## Workflow

The Operator currently supports only cold backups (the `offline` mode). 
A cold backup is also known as an offline backup. 

> It is a physical base backup taken when the PostgreSQL instance is shut down. 

Reviewer 2: maybe we should say snapshot instead of physical base backup

3. **Suspends** the replica StatefulSet (scales it to zero).
4. Creates Kubernetes `VolumeSnapshot` objects for the data PVC, WAL PVC (if separate), and any tablespace PVCs.
5. Waits for all snapshots to become `ReadyToUse`.
6. **Resumes** the replica StatefulSet.

This approach ensures a crash-consistent snapshot while minimizing the impact on the primary. Only a replica is taken offline, so the cluster continues serving read/write traffic on the primary during the snapshot.

## Why to use PVC snapshots

PVC snapshots can speed up backups and restores, which is especially beneficial for large data sets. With this feature, you get:

* **Much faster backups** – Snapshot creation is typically seconds to minutes, regardless of database size. Traditional full backups scale with data volume and can take hours for large datasets.
* **Much faster restores** – Restoring from a snapshot is significantly faster than restoring from cloud storage. Both in-place restores and restores to a new cluster are supported.
* **Lower resource usage** – Snapshots avoid the CPU and network overhead of streaming data to remote storage.

> * **PITR support** – When used with pgBackRest, snapshots integrate with point-in-time recovery for flexible restore targets.

Reviewer 2: i don't think this is reason to use snapshots since it's available in pgbackrest method as well
